
 Five explosive receivers for Patriots to pursue in 2024 free agency originally appeared on NBC Sports BostonThe Patriots are 
 one month away from the official start to free agency on March 13. And they have work to do. 
 Fortunately for them, they have plenty of funds with which to do it.Head coach Jerod Mayo and personnel chief 
 Eliot Wolf have $66 million in cap space to play with this offseason, according to Over The Cap. That 
 number could balloon to about $80 million if and when the team releases corner J.C. Jackson.Where should they turn, 
 then, when the league-wide free-agent spending spree commences?Quarterback? Unlikely, it seems, unless they pursue a cost-effective option.The Patriots know 
 they are going to have an opportunity to draft one of either Caleb Williams, Drake Maye or Jayden Daniels 
 at the end of April. The No. 3 overall selection is the highest Robert Kraft's team has drafted since 
 he purchased the franchise, and if it looks like any of those three have face-of-the-franchise potential, then don't expect 
 boatloads of Kraft's money to be spent on a free-agent quarterback more than a month before the draft begins.The 
 Patriots also need tackles and wide receivers. Clearly. It's gotten to the point that even new head coach Jerod 
 Mayo has acknowledged publicly that, along with quarterback, his team has very real needs at those two essential offensive 
 position groups.The problem with needing a tackle in free agency, however, is that this year's crop of veterans isn't 
 all that voluminous. The Patriots have a pair of free-agent tackles set to hit the market: Trent Brown and 
 Mike Onwenu. But Onwenu's best position may be at guard, and Brown's open discontent with the franchise throughout the 
 course of last season may make him less likely to return.Cowboys tackle Tyron Smith is set to hit free 
 agency as well, but he's been in Dallas for the duration of his 13-year career, and it may be 
 hard to coax him up to Foxboro. Jets tackle Mekhi Becton (whose career has been beset by injury) and 
 Jonah Williams (who flipped from left tackle to right tackle last season) also are set to hit the market.They 
 may be worthy of pursuit, but it looks like a deep tackle draft, meaning the Patriots potentially could find 
 themselves a starter in the second round.Then there's the receiver spot.That appears to be a deep position in this 
 year's draft, too, but given New England's history of drafting wideouts -- and given the possibility the team lands 
 a quarterback and a tackle with its first two picks -- then free agency might be the best route 
 for Mayo and Wolf.Stock up at that position in March. Then, in April, the Patriots might not feel forced 
 to use a high-end selection to give their young passer the security-blanket he needs.Let's take a look at some 
 of the free-agent receivers who could be available to the Patriots a month from today...Tee Higgins, Cincinnati BengalsHiggins is 
 a quality "X," which the Patriots have lacked for some time. DeVante Parker has been their boundary 50-50 option. 
 But Higgins is younger and has a recent history of being more explosive with back-to-back 1,000-yard seasons in 2021 
 and 2022.Unfortunately for the Patriots, there seems to be a high likelihood that the Bengals keep him around -- 
 either with an extension of the franchise tag -- in order to make the most of a championship window 
 with Joe Burrow and Ja'Marr Chase.THIS CATCH 🤯#ProBowlVote x Tee Higgins pic.twitter.com/wrZeJlZe1U— Cincinnati Bengals (@Bengals) December 16, 2023Michael Pittman 
 Jr., Indianapolis ColtsMore of a possession receiver than a game-changing athlete, Pittman still has posted impressive numbers while working 
 with less than impressive quarterbacks the last few seasons. He's a massive target (6-foot-4, 225 pounds) who has had 
 109, 99 and 88 catches the last three seasons. He fell just 75 yards short of 1,000 yards in 
 2022, but he eclipsed that mark in both 2021 and 2023.With a big-time catch radius, sure hands and a 
 proven track record of durability (just two games missed over the last three seasons), he'd be a nice option 
 for a young quarterback if he isn't franchised by Indy.MICHAEL PITTMAN JR. 75 YARDS! Indy back on top.📺: #CLEvsIND 
 on CBS📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/iTs8HMaXlh pic.twitter.com/3tj2I9kURX— NFL (@NFL) October 22, 2023Mike Evans, Tampa Bay BuccaneersYou can't teach an 
 old dog new tricks, they say, which might be a good thing in Evans' case, since at the age 
 of 30 he knows nothing other than 1,000-yard seasons. He posted his tenth straight such campaign in 2023 working 
 with Baker Mayfield, and he would give a young quarterback in New England looking for bail-out options one of 
 the best bail-out options in football.If they want him, though, the Patriots might have to be willing to pony 
 up more than $20 million per year for multiple years. That's the going rate for high-end pass-catchers these days, 
 and Evans still qualifies.WANT MIKE EVANS. GOT MIKE EVANS.📺: #CHIvsTB on FOX pic.twitter.com/sqy9R6TYRw— Tampa Bay Buccaneers (@Buccaneers) September 17, 
 2023Marquise Brown, Arizona CardinalsIf the Patriots want to add pure explosiveness to their offensive attack, Brown may be one 
 of their best options. At 5-9, 180 pounds, Brown isn't going to give his next quarterback the biggest strike 
 zone. But he can threaten safeties to the point that he may open up the underneath areas for his 
 teammates while occasionally providing the kinds of explosive gains the Ravens thought they'd be getting when they drafted him 
 No. 25 overall in 2019.He averaged 11.3 yards per reception last year. Because he hasn't been incredibly productive, he 
 may be one of the best bargains on this list. Could the Patriots land him for a deal similar 
 to the one they gave Nelson Agholor in 2021?Hollywood Movie Magic 🎬@Primetime_jet x #BirdCityFootball pic.twitter.com/Fs1xjM3oMb— Arizona Cardinals (@AZCardinals) October 
 9, 2022Calvin Ridley, Jacksonville JaguarsIf Higgins and Pittman get tagged, Ridley might be New England's next-best option. After missing 
 all of 2022 due to a gambling suspension and half of 2021 when he left the Falcons for mental 
 health reasons, the former Alabama star racked up a 1,000-yard season in 2023. He's a more explosive option than 
 Pittman, and he's a bigger player than Brown (6-foot-1, 190).Calvin Ridley ‼️📺: #KCvsJAX on CBS📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/FhXtx7w3wW 
 pic.twitter.com/NHTEUxup9K— NFL (@NFL) September 17, 2023Going into 2024 the draft with both Ridley and DeMario Douglas locked in as 
 top-three receivers isn't going to be enough to wow the rest of the NFL. But it's an upgrade over 
 what they've had. Plus, Ridley's ability to function in multiple receiver roles would allow the Patriots the flexibility to 
 pursue the best receiver option available to them -- inside? outside? -- in the draft.Per Pro Football Focus, Ridley could command a deal that pays him about $16.5 million per season. If so, the Patriots could give him a three-year deal that would carry a first-year cap hit of about $9 million, leaving them with plenty of money to play with to sign, for instance, a free-agent No. 2 quarterback and a starting-caliber tackle.